OSSMDOC-288: Rebranding Jaeger to distributed tracing. (#39643)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/distr-tracing-deploy-streaming.adoc

////
This module included in the following assemblies:
- distr_tracing_install/distr-tracing-deploying.adoc
////

[id="distr-tracing-deploy-streaming_{context}"]
= Deploying the {DTShortName} streaming strategy from the web console

The `streaming` deployment strategy is intended for production environments, where long term storage of trace data is important, as well as a more scalable and highly available architecture is required.

> The `streaming` strategy provides a streaming capability that sits between the Collector and the storage (Elasticsearch). This reduces the pressure on the storage under high load situations, and enables other trace post-processing capabilities to tap into the real time span data directly from the streaming platform (Kafka).

Author: Actually I think it's "real-time span data" since distributed tracing collects "spans".  I can't use your second suggestion because my copy of IBM Style says hyphen for the adjective (real-time data), no hyphen for the noun (in real time).  (Bah, why is writing so complicated sometimes!!!)

====

.Prerequisites

* The AMQ Streams Operator must be installed. If using version 1.4.0 or higher you can use self-provisioning. If otherwise, you need to create the Kafka instance.
* The {JaegerName} Operator must be installed.
* Review the instructions for how to customize the deployment.
* An account with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

. Log in to the {product-title} web console as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

. Create a new project, for example `tracing-system`.

+
[NOTE]
====
If you are installing as part of Service Mesh, the {DTShortName} resources must be installed in the same namespace as the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource, for example 'istio-system'.
====
+

.. Navigate to *Home* -> *Projects*.

.. Click *Create Project*.

.. Enter `tracing-system` in the *Name* field.

.. Click *Create*.

. Navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

. If necessary, select `tracing-system` from the *Project* menu. You may have to wait a few moments for the Operators to be copied to the new project.

. Click the {JaegerName} Operator. On the *Overview* tab, under *Provided APIs*, the Operator provides a single link.

> . Under *Jaeger* click *Create Instance*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Under *Jaeger*, click *Create Instance*.
```

metadata:
  name: jaeger-streaming
spec:
  strategy: streaming
  collector:
    options:
      kafka:
        producer:
          topic: jaeger-spans
          #Note: If brokers are not defined,AMQStreams 1.4.0+ will self-provision Kafka.
          brokers: my-cluster-kafka-brokers.kafka:9092
  storage:
    type: elasticsearch
  ingester:
    options:
      kafka:
        consumer:
          topic: jaeger-spans
          brokers: my-cluster-kafka-brokers.kafka:9092

----
//TODO - find out if this storage configuration is correct for OpenShift

. Click *Create* to create the {JaegerShortName} instance.

. On the *Jaegers* page, click the name of the {JaegerShortName} instance, for example, `jaeger-streaming`.

. On the *Jaeger Details* page, click the *Resources* tab. Wait until all the pods have a status of "Running" before continuing.

[id="distr-tracing-deploy-streaming-cli_{context}"]
== Deploying the {DTShortName} streaming strategy from the CLI

Follow this procedure to create an instance of {JaegerShortName} from the command line.

.Prerequisites

* An installed, verified {JaegerName} Operator.
* Access to the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) that matches your {product-title} version.

> * An account with the `cluster-admin` role.

Reviewer: prev comment

Procedure

. Log in to the {product-title} CLI as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login https://{HOSTNAME}:8443
----

. Create a new project named `tracing-system`.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project tracing-system
----

. Create a custom resource file named `jaeger-streaming.yaml` that contains the text of the example file in the previous procedure.

. Run the following command to deploy Jaeger:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -n tracing-system -f jaeger-streaming.yaml
----
+
. Run the following command to watch the progress of the pods during the installation process:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n tracing-system -w
----
+

> Once the installation process has completed, you should see output similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the installation process has completed, you should see output similar to the following example:
```
